## Digital Ocean

The simplest cloud platform for developers & teams
Deploy, manage, and scale cloud applications faster and more efficiently on DigitalOcean. We make managing infrastructure easy for teams and businesses, whether you’re running one virtual machine or ten thousand.

Deploy your app in seconds.
Get started now.

Email Address
Email Address

Password
Password
Create your account
Sign up with Google
By signing up you agree to the Terms of Service.

INNOVATIVE BUSINESSES TRUST DIGITALOCEAN
Docker
GitLab
Slack
HashiCorp
WeWork
Splunk
View customer stories 
Deploy and scale seamlessly
Our optimized configuration process saves your team time when running and scaling distributed applications, AI & machine learning workloads, hosted services, client websites, or CI/CD environments.

Deploy
Manage
Secure
Scale
Monitor
Cluster deployments
Provision multiple Droplets (virtual machines) in seconds with our control panel, CLI, or directly against our API.

Optimized compute types
Get the compute resources you need with Standard or Optimized Droplets.

One-click apps
Skip the install and configuration process with pre-built open source images supporting Rails, Cassandra, Docker, and more.

Global availability
Deploy to any of our data center regions around the world.

Designed for developers
Build more and spend less time managing your infrastructure with our easy-to-use control panel and API.





The features your business needs
Predictable pricing
Leave complex pricing structures behind. Always know what you’ll pay per month with a flat, industry-leading pricing structure.

Pricing 
World-class service
Free round-the-clock technical support for all customers. You’ll feel the love.

Support 
Reliable platform
More than 100,000 developer teams worldwide trust DigitalOcean to support their business with a 99.99% uptime SLA for all services.

Security 
Service your customers around the world from 12 regions.
REGION SLUG	REGION	TEST SPEED
AMS2	Amsterdam, Netherlands	Test speed 
AMS3	Amsterdam, Netherlands	Test speed 
BLR1	Bangalore, India	Test speed 
FRA1	Frankfurt, Germany	Test speed 
LON1	London, UK	Test speed 
NYC1	New York, USA	Test speed 

Official Website: https://www.digitalocean.com/
